README.md, before:


# Ansible Role:  `k0s`

Create a Kubernetes Cluster using Ansible.

Use vanilla upstream Kubernetes distro [k0s](https://github.com/k0sproject/k0s).

Similar to [movd/k0s-ansible](https://github.com/movd/k0s-ansible), **but** better (i think so ;) )


[![GitHub Workflow Status](https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/bodsch/ansible-k0s/CI)][ci]
[![GitHub issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/bodsch/ansible-k0s)][issues]
[![GitHub release (latest by date)](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/bodsch/ansible-k0s)][releases]

[ci]: https://github.com/bodsch/ansible-k0s/actions
[issues]: https://github.com/bodsch/ansible-k0s/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue
[releases]: https://github.com/bodsch/ansible-k0s/releases


## Why better?

This Ansible role can be used atomically.  
If no changes are necessary, none will be made.

Avoid `command` calls.  
Wherever possible, separate Ansible modules are used for this.

One role for all cases.


## supported Operating systems

Tested on

* ArchLinux
* Debian based
    - Debian 10 / 11


## working implementation

The example of a working implementation can be viewed at [GitLab](https://gitlab.com/kubernetes-cluser).  
A suitable infrastructure based on KVM and Terraform can be created in the repository.


## Contribution

Please read [Contribution](CONTRIBUTING.md)


## Development,  Branches (Git Tags)

The `master` Branch is my *Working Horse* includes the "latest, hot shit" and can be complete broken!

If you want to use something stable, please use a [Tagged Version](https://gitlab.com/bodsch/ansible-k0s/-/tags)!


## usage

```yaml
k0s_version: 1.25.2+k0s.0
k0s_release_download_url: https://github.com/k0sproject/k0s/releases

k0s_system_user: "{{ ansible_user }}"
k0s_system_group: "{{ ansible_user }}"

k0s_config_dir: /etc/k0s
k0s_data_dir: /var/lib/k0s
k0s_libexec_dir: /usr/libexec/k0s

k0s_direct_download: false

k0s_cluster_nodes:
  initial_controller: ""
  controllers: []
  workers: []

k0s_extra_arguments:
  controller:
    - --enable-metrics-scraper

k0s_config: {}

k0s_token_expiry: "1h"

k0s_artifacts_dir: "{{ inventory_dir }}/artifacts"
```

### `k0s_config`

Extension of the automatically created `k0s.yaml`
The structure must correspond to the created configuration. An example file can be viewed [here](./k0s_example.yaml).


### single controller

```yaml
k0s_cluster_nodes:
  initial_controller: controller-1.k0s.local
  controllers: []
  workers: []
```


### one controller with multi workers

```yaml
k0s_cluster_nodes:
  initial_controller: controller-1.k0s.local
  controllers: []
  workers:
    - worker-1.k0s.local
    - worker-2.k0s.local
    - worker-3.k0s.local
```

### multi controllers with multi workers

```yaml
k0s_cluster_nodes:
  initial_controller: controller-1.k0s.local
  controllers:
    - controller-2.k0s.local
    - controller-3.k0s.local
  workers:
    - worker-1.k0s.local
    - worker-2.k0s.local
    - worker-3.k0s.local
```

## Credits

- [Moritz](https://github.com/movd)

## other dokumentaions

[Upgrading a k0s cluster in-place from single-master to HA](https://vadosware.io/post/upgrading-a-k0s-cluster-from-single-to-ha/#get-all-your-workloads-off-the-current-master-controllerworker-role-node)

Commit message:

add Vagrant driver for a larger test coverage.
- Update build environment.
- Bug in token provisioning for worker instances fixed.

README.md, after:


# Ansible Role:  `k0s`

Create a Kubernetes Cluster using Ansible.

Use vanilla upstream Kubernetes distro [k0s](https://github.com/k0sproject/k0s).

Similar to [movd/k0s-ansible](https://github.com/movd/k0s-ansible), **but** better (i think so ;) )


[![GitHub Workflow Status](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/bodsch/ansible-k0s/main.yml?branch=main)][ci]
[![GitHub issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/bodsch/ansible-k0s)][issues]
[![GitHub release (latest by date)](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/bodsch/ansible-k0s)][releases]
[![Ansible Quality Score](https://img.shields.io/ansible/quality/50067?label=role%20quality)][quality]

[ci]: https://github.com/bodsch/ansible-k0s/actions
[issues]: https://github.com/bodsch/ansible-k0s/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue
[releases]: https://github.com/bodsch/ansible-k0s/releases
[quality]: https://galaxy.ansible.com/bodsch/k0s


## Why better?

This Ansible role can be used atomically.  
If no changes are necessary, none will be made.

Avoid `command` calls.  
Wherever possible, separate Ansible modules are used for this.

One role for all cases.


## supported Operating systems

Tested on

* ArchLinux
* Debian based
    - Debian 10 / 11


## working implementation

The example of a working implementation can be viewed at [GitLab](https://gitlab.com/integration-tests/k0s).  
A suitable infrastructure based on KVM and Terraform can be created in the repository.

There are some tests in `molecule` that could be used.
For reasons that are not clear to me, the tests in a docker container are not very meaningful.
I have therefore extended the tests with the *Vagrant* driver.

There is a `Makefile` to start the tests:

```shell
make test -e TOX_SCENARIO=multi-worker
```


```shell
make test -e TOX_SCENARIO=vagrant-multi-worker
```


## Contribution

Please read [Contribution](CONTRIBUTING.md)


## Development,  Branches (Git Tags)

The `master` Branch is my *Working Horse* includes the "latest, hot shit" and can be complete broken!

If you want to use something stable, please use a [Tagged Version](https://github.com/bodsch/ansible-k0s/tags)!


## usage

```yaml
k0s_version: 1.25.2+k0s.0
k0s_release_download_url: https://github.com/k0sproject/k0s/releases

k0s_system_user: "{{ ansible_user }}"
k0s_system_group: "{{ ansible_user }}"

k0s_config_dir: /etc/k0s
k0s_data_dir: /var/lib/k0s
k0s_libexec_dir: /usr/libexec/k0s

k0s_direct_download: false

k0s_cluster_nodes:
  initial_controller: ""
  controllers: []
  workers: []

k0s_extra_arguments:
  controller:
    - --enable-metrics-scraper

k0s_config: {}

k0s_token_expiry: "1h"

k0s_artifacts_dir: "{{ inventory_dir }}/artifacts"
```

### `k0s_config`

Extension of the automatically created `k0s.yaml`
The structure must correspond to the created configuration. An example file can be viewed [here](./k0s_example.yaml).


### single controller

```yaml
k0s_cluster_nodes:
  initial_controller: controller-1.k0s.local
  controllers: []
  workers: []
```


### one controller with multi workers

```yaml
k0s_cluster_nodes:
  initial_controller: controller-1.k0s.local
  controllers: []
  workers:
    - worker-1.k0s.local
    - worker-2.k0s.local
    - worker-3.k0s.local
```

### multi controllers with multi workers

```yaml
k0s_cluster_nodes:
  initial_controller: controller-1.k0s.local
  controllers:
    - controller-2.k0s.local
    - controller-3.k0s.local
  workers:
    - worker-1.k0s.local
    - worker-2.k0s.local
    - worker-3.k0s.local
```

## Credits

- [Moritz](https://github.com/movd)

## other dokumentaions

[Upgrading a k0s cluster in-place from single-master to HA](https://vadosware.io/post/upgrading-a-k0s-cluster-from-single-to-ha/#get-all-your-workloads-off-the-current-master-controllerworker-role-node)
